    Lingua::BrillTagger Perl module
    =================================

This module provides a Perl interface to the natural-language
part-of-speech written by Eric Brill as part of his Ph.D. work at the
University of Pennsylvania.  It may be downloaded from
http://www.cs.jhu.edu/~brill/RBT1_14.tar.Z

Please see the documentation of Lingua::BrillTagger for details on how
to use the perl interface.


INSTALLATION

In order to install this module, you must first install the Brill
tagger, including the modifications in the Tagger.patch file (included
with the Lingua::BrillTagger distribution).  This will provide a
"libbrill.a" library (or whatever the equivalent filename is on your
system against which the perl module will be linked.

After installing the Brill tagger, follow the standard procedure for
installing new-style perl modules:

   perl Build.PL
   perl Build
   perl Build test
   perl Build install  (may need to be done as root)

If the headers and/or library aren't in a location where your compiler
will find them by itself, in the first step you can tell it where they
are like so:

  perl Build.PL --extra_compiler_flags "-I/foo/include -Wall" \
                --extra_linker_flags   "-L/foo/lib -lbrill"

DEPENDENCIES

As described above, this module requires a patched version of the
Brill tagger.  Installation requires Module::Build version 0.21 and
Test::More (any version), but they are not used after installation.


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

The Lingua::BrillTagger perl interface is copyright (C) 2004-2005 Thomson
Legal & Regulatory, and written by Ken Williams.  It is free software;
you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl
itself.

The Brill Tagger is copyright (C) 1993 by the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and the University of Pennsylvania - you will find full
copyright and license information in its distribution.  The
Tagger.patch file distributed here is granted under the same license
terms as the tagger code itself.

